---

layout:     post
title:      202201 GLP Training Summary
subtitle:   Leadership Sharing
date:       2022-01-18
author:     Victor
header-img: img/McMaster_BG.jpg
catalog: true
tags:

    - GLP -Leadership

---

## 20220113_GLP Training Summary

This week I attended the monthly leadership training from GLP (Global Leadership Platform). 2 senior ex-senior leaders from P&G Scott and Mike joined the session as trainers, both of them serving P&G for ~30 years. This training session mainly focuses on three components of business success.

### Excellent product and service

Without a good product or service, business success won't be sustainable. The business owner may face a dilemma whether they want to sacrifice short-term loss for the sake of long-term reputation when quality issues occur. The trainer shared an example that when the ingredient of pet food was found hazardous, P&G supply chain head didn't hesitate to recall all products on the shelf though it implied huge loss. 

This sharing just reminded me of my own experience at Intel. Back in 2012, when Intel launched the new PCH platform- Cougarpoint, the consumer reported that the new platform had a quality issue. Intel took swift action to recall all shipped products and boosted capacity in a short period to fulfill customer needs. At that time, it was the Chinese New Year holiday and the whole factory was shut down. But factory employees were urgently called back from nationwide to gear up the production line, and also equipment suppliers were called in to support new equipment installation. It almost cost Intel 1 billion to recover this issue, but in the end Intel regained the confidence from its customers with these proactive actions.

It never is an easy task for the management team to make such kinds of decisions as it will definitely involve huge pressure. However, if they have a long-term vision, the company can grasp such a chance to turn the crisis into an opportunity and regain the customer's trust.

### Honesty and Fair Dealing

Big companies always have a Code Of Conduct to guide the employees on how to conduct business legally and how to behave in their work. However, those guidelines or principles are often well written but are seldom put into real practice. It really depends on the leadership team to walk the talk and play a role model in order to make the documents live. Scott shared a real case that happened in his career. One department would like to know the competitors' new product strategy, so they recruited 3rd party to find all valuable clues out of the trash bin nearby the competitor's office. When the CEO was aware of this issue, he immediately stopped this practice and personally called the CEO of the competitor to apologize for this wrongdoing and commit no touch on that information. Mike also shared another story of failed dealing. When they built a new factory in an African country, they received a hint from the government official that they need to offer a bribe in order to speed up the approval. their competitor took the shortcut to expedite the approval and put a new factory into production 1 year ahead. Though the marketing team put a lot of pressure, Mike's team decided to play it legally and reject the bribe.  When P&G finally launched the product, the local suppliers exited their business with the competitors but started a new business with P&G. Also the employees of the competitor also chose to join P&G. Within a year, P&G dominated the market.

### Customer Service/Care for people

There is an old saying, the employee will treat the customer with the way that company treat them. When the company treats the employee as a resource instead of an asset, they will try their best to exploit the employees rather well treat them. In the long run, employees won't do their best to serve the company. Mike once invited the CEO to recognize the star employees of his department. When the activity ended, Mike said thanks to CEO for his time. The CEO pulled him away and said to his eyes: "Mike, those people are the hope of this company. Without us, the company can still thrive. But without those employees, the company will bankrupt soon." Those words still impressed Mike today.

Throughout my career, I did witness how company treat their employees in a very different way. At Intel, even operators can still feel dignity and receive respect from the management team. While in some local companies, even the top management receives public rebuke all the time. And I can see the big difference in the commitment level from the employees. 













